added Troubleshooting.rst to documentation (#3345)
ansys/pyaedt: doc/source/Getting_started/Troubleshooting.rst

Troubleshooting
===============

> This section contains common issues and suggestion around PyAEDT installation and usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section contains common issues and suggestions around PyAEDT installation and usage.
```

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Error installing Python or Conda
--------------------------------

> It may happen, that IT Department doesn't allow users to install a Python interpreter in the machine.
> In this case user can use the interpreter available in installation path of Ansys Electronics Desktop.
> Please note that Python 3.7 is available in AEDT <= 2023R1 while Python 3.10 is available on Ansys Electronics
> Desktop 2023 R2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some IT department do not allow you to install a Python interpreter in your machine.
In this case, you can use the interpreter available in the AEDT installation path. In AEDT
2023 R1 and earlier, Python 3.7 is available. In AEDT 2023 R2 and later, Python 3.10 is
available.
```

.. code:: python
   path\to\AnsysEM\v231\commonfiles\CPython\3_7\winx64\Release\python"

Error installing PyAEDT using pip
---------------------------------

> 1. Check if internet connection is working.
> 2. Check if firewall allows connections to pypi.com.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check if your internet connection is working.
2. Check if your firewall allows connections to pypi.com.
```

> In case downloads from pypi are not allowed in your organization try using a wheelhouse.
> A wheelhouse is a zip containing all needed packages that can be installed offline.
> PyAEDT wheelhouse can be found at `Releases <https://github.com/ansys/pyaedt/releases>`_.
> After downloading the wheelhouse zip specific for your distribution and Python release, unzip it in a folder and,
> then, run the Python command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your organization does not allow downloads from pypi.com, try using a wheelhouse.
A wheelhouse is a compressed file containing all needed packages that can be installed offline.
The PyAEDT wheelhouse can be found on the `Releases <https://github.com/ansys/pyaedt/releases>`_
page. After downloading the wheelhouse specific for your distribution and Python release, unzip it
in a folder and then run this Python command:
```

.. code:: python

    pip install --no-cache-dir --no-index --find-links=/path/to/pyaedt/wheelhouse pyaedt

> In addition user can install a wheelhouse using the following file
> :download:`PyAEDT Installer Python file <../Resources/PyAEDTInstallerFromDesktop.py>`
> this can be run directly from AEDT Script menu and the wheelhouse zip file can be passed as an argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another option for installnig a wheelhouse is to download the
:download:`Python file for installing PyAEDT <../Resources/PyAEDTInstallerFromDesktop.py>`.
You can then run this file directly from AEDT **Script** menu, passing the wheelhouse file as
an argument.
```

Run PyAEDT
~~~~~~~~~~

COM vs GRPC
-----------
Up until AEDT 2022R2, the method for connecting Python to AEDT-API used COM.

> COM is a technology which requires interfaces, classes, objects and methods to be registered in Windows Registry.

Author: ```suggestion
COM is a technology which requires interfaces, classes, objects, and methods to be registered in Windows Registry.
```

> COM is a technology which requires interfaces, classes, objects and methods to be registered in Windows Registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
COM vs GRPC
-----------
Up until AEDT 2022 R2, the method for connecting Python to the AEDT API used COM.
COM is a technology that requires interfaces, classes, objects, and methods to be
registered in Windows Registry.
```

> All communication between Python and AEDT-API were translated through an intermediate layer by a
> third party module called pywin32. This module usage was limited to Windows OS only.
> PythonNET was added to make the connection to the AEDT-API.
> In 2022R2, a new technology was added to replace COM: GRPC. GRPC is a modern remote procedure calls framework
> to communicate with the API via remote calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All communication between Python and the AEDT API were translated through an intermediate layer by a
third-party module, pywin32. Usage of this module was limited to the Windows OS only.
Python.NET was added to make the connection to the AEDT API.

In 2022 R2, a new technology, gRPC, was added to replace COM. gRPC is a modern framework
that uses remote procedure calls to communicate with the API.
```

.. list-table:: GRPC Compatibility Table
   :widths: 25 25 75 75
   :header-rows: 1

   * -

>      - <2022R2
>      - 2022R2
>      - >2022R2
>    * - AEDT
>      - Only PythonNET

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - <2022 R2
     - 2022 R2
     - >2022 R2
   * - AEDT
     - Only Python,NET
```

>      - GRPC Beta
>      - GRPC Available

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - gRPC Beta
     - gRPC Available
```

   * - AEDT

>      - Only PythonNET
>      - PythonNET default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Only Python.NET
     - Python.NET default.
```

>        GRPC: pyaedt.settings.use_grpc_api = True
>      - GRPC default

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       gRPC: pyaedt.settings.use_grpc_api = True
     - gRPC default
```

>        PythonNET: pyaedt.settings.use_grpc_api = False

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       Python.NET: pyaedt.settings.use_grpc_api = False
```

> Above options are available only in windows. Linux uses GRPC in any version as it is the only way to connect

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Above options are available only in Windows. Linux uses GRPC in any version as it is the only way to connect
```

to AEDT API.

How to check that Electronics Desktop API is working and correctly configured
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

> To start Electronics desktop server in GRPC mode use the following syntax:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To start Electronics desktop server in gRPC mode use the following syntax:
```

> How to check that Electronics Desktop API is working and correctly configured
> -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
> To start Electronics desktop server in gRPC mode use the following syntax:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to check that the AEDT API is working and correctly configured
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
To start the AEDT server in gRPC mode, use this syntax:
```

.. code:: python

   path\to\AnsysEM\v231\Win64\ansysedt.exe -grpcsrv 50001   # Windows

>    path\to\AnsysEM\v231\Lin64\ansysedt -grpcsrv 50352       # Linux

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   path/to/AnsysEM/v231/Lin64/ansysedt -grpcsrv 50352       # Linux
```

> The number on which the server is running is the port that AEDT should use to listen and receive
> any command from PyAEDT. This allows to have multiple AEDT sessions running on the same machine
> and listening on the same port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The port that the server is running on is the port that AEDT should use to listen and receive
any command from PyAEDT. This allows you to have multiple AEDT sessions running on the same machine
and listening on the same port.
```

> Check that AEDT GRPC API can run
> --------------------------------
> Native Electronics Desktop API command can be used to launch Electronics Desktop from command line.
> This can be done even without PyAEDT to check that everything is setup correctly and all environment
> variables have been correctly setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check that the AEDT gRPC API can run
-------------------------------------------
Native AEDT API commands can be used to launch the AEDT server from the command line.
You can run these commands even without PyAEDT to check that everything is set up correctly, 
including environment variables.
```

.. code:: python

    import sys
    sys.path.append(r"ANSYSEM_ROOT231\PythonFiles\DesktopPlugin")
    import ScriptEnv
    print(dir())
    ScriptEnv.Initialize("", False, "", 50051)
    print(dir())

Failures in connecting to GRPC API
----------------------------------

> On Linux, it may happens that PyAEDT fails to initialize a new session of Electronics Desktop
> or to connect to an existing one.
> This may be due to:
>  - Firewall
>  - Proxy
>  - Permissions
>  - License
>  - Scheduler used to launch AEDT like LSF

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Linux, PyAEDT can fail to initialize a new AEDT session or connect to an existing one.
Here are likely causes:
 - Firewall
 - Proxy
 - Permissions
 - License
 - Scheduler (like LSF) used to launch AEDT 
```

> In case of issues with proxy, you may try the following environment variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case of issues with the proxy, you can try using this environment variable:
```

.. code:: python

    export no_proxy=localhost,127.0.0.1

> Run your PyAEDT script. If it still fails, then try:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If running your PyAEDT script still fails, then try adding this:
```
A noun of some sort should follow "this". For example, "... try adding this line of code:" However, I'm not sure if that is technically correct. I'd appreciate your adding the appropriate noun.

.. code:: python

    export http_proxy=

> Run your PyAEDT script. If the errors still persists, try the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If running your PyAEDT script fails once again, perform these steps:
```

> 1. Check that AEDT starts correctly from command line using GRPC port option
> 2. enable all debug log variables and check logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check that AEDT starts correctly from the command line using the gRPC port option.
2. Enable all debug log variables and check the logs.
```

.. code:: python

    export ANSOFT_DEBUG_LOG=/tmp/testlogs/logs/lg
    export ANSOFT_DEBUG_LOG_SEPARATE=1
    export ANSOFT_DEBUG_LOG_TIMESTAMP=1
    export ANSOFT_DEBUG_LOG_THREAD_ID=1
    export ANSOFT_DEBUG_MODE=3

> Turn on the GRPC trace on the server side too:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Turn on the gRPC trace on the server side too:
```

.. code:: python

    export GRPC_VERBOSITY=DEBUG
    export GRPC_TRACE=all

> Then start ansysedt.exe as GRPC server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then start the ``ansysedt.exe`` as file as the gRPC server.
```

.. code:: python

    ansysedt -grpcsrv 50051

> The GRPC trace is printed on the terminal console. Capture the output as the server.txt file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The gRPC trace is printed on the terminal console. Capture the output as the ``server.txt`` file.
```

> In another terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In another termina, run these commands:
```

.. code:: python

    export GRPC_VERBOSITY=DEBUG
    export GRPC_TRACE=all

> Run the PyAEDT script(make sure it is trying to connect to the same port as the GRPC server).
> Capture the output as the client.txt file. Send all the logs generated to Ansys Support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the PyAEDT script, making sure that it is trying to connect to the same port as the gRPC server.
Capture the output as the ``client.txt`` file.
Send all the logs generated to Ansys Support.
```
These lines should all be steps. Use an email address in the last line instead of Ansys support--and do we really want this output to be sent to Ansys Support or to the PyAnsys Core team?

Author: in this case specifically it is Ansys Support because it is an issue of the native API and are logs to be sent to our developers

.. code:: bat
   :caption: Windows

   path\to\AnsysEM\v231\Win64\ansysedt.exe -grpcsrv 50001

.. code:: console
   :caption: Linux

   path\to\AnsysEM\v231\Lin64\ansysedt -grpcsrv 50352

The server port number is used by AEDT to listen and receive
commands from PyAEDT client instances. This configuration
supports multiple sessions of AEDT running on a single server
and listening on the same port.

Check the GRPC Interface
------------------------
The native Electronics Desktop API can be used to launch
Electronics Desktop from the command line.
This can be done even without PyAEDT to check that everything is set up correctly
and all environment
variables have been defined.

.. code:: python

    import sys
    sys.path.append(r"ANSYSEM_ROOT231\PythonFiles\DesktopPlugin")
    import ScriptEnv
    print(dir())
    ScriptEnv.Initialize("", False, "", 50051)
    print(dir())

Failures in connecting to GRPC API
----------------------------------
On Linux, it may happens that PyAEDT fails to initialize a new session of Electronics Desktop
or to connect to an existing one.
This may be due to:
 - Firewall
 - Proxy
 - Permissions
 - License
 - Scheduler used to launch AEDT like LSF

> In case of issues with proxy, you may try the following environment variable:

Reviewer 3: Do you mean the server is running a proxy server?
```suggestion
In case of issues due to use of a proxy server, you may set the following environment variable:
```

> .. code:: python

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. code:: console
```

Reviewer 3: Should this be a shell command?

    export no_proxy=localhost,127.0.0.1

> Run your PyAEDT script. If it still fails, then try:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Run your PyAEDT script. If it still fails, the proxy server can be disabled using
```
